Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator.md, before:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator

Run cilium-operator

### Synopsis

Run cilium-operator

```
cilium-operator [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --aws-instance-limit-mapping map          Add or overwrite mappings of AWS instance limit in the form of {"AWS instance type": "Maximum Network Interfaces","IPv4 Addresses per Interface","IPv6 Addresses per Interface"}. cli example: --aws-instance-limit-mapping=a1.medium=2,4,4 --aws-instance-limit-mapping=a2.somecustomflavor=4,5,6 configmap example: {"a1.medium": "2,4,4", "a2.somecustomflavor": "4,5,6"} (default map[])
      --aws-release-excess-ips                  Enable releasing excess free IP addresses from AWS ENI.
      --azure-resource-group string             Resource group to use for Azure IPAM
      --azure-subscription-id string            Subscription ID to access Azure API
      --cilium-endpoint-gc-interval duration    GC interval for cilium endpoints (default 5m0s)
      --cluster-id int                          Unique identifier of the cluster
      --cluster-name string                     Name of the cluster (default "default")
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-cidr string           IPv4 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-mask-size int         Mask size for each IPv4 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true' (default 24)
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-cidr string           IPv6 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-mask-size int         Mask size for each IPv6 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true' (default 112)
      --cnp-node-status-gc-interval duration    GC interval for nodes which have been removed from the cluster in CiliumNetworkPolicy Status (default 2m0s)
      --cnp-status-update-interval duration     Interval between CNP status updates sent to the k8s-apiserver per-CNP (default 1s)
      --config string                           Configuration file (default "$HOME/ciliumd.yaml")
      --config-dir string                       Configuration directory that contains a file for each option
      --crd-wait-timeout duration               Operator will exit if CRDs are not available within this duration upon startup (default 5m0s)
  -D, --debug                                   Enable debugging mode
      --enable-ipv4                             Enable IPv4 support (default true)
      --enable-ipv6                             Enable IPv6 support (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --enable-k8s-endpoint-slice               Enables k8s EndpointSlice feature into Cilium-Operator if the k8s cluster supports it (default true)
      --enable-metrics                          Enable Prometheus metrics
      --eni-tags map                            ENI tags in the form of k1=v1 (multiple k/v pairs can be passed by repeating the CLI flag) (default map[])
  -h, --help                                    help for cilium-operator
      --identity-allocation-mode string         Method to use for identity allocation (default "kvstore")
      --identity-gc-interval duration           GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration      Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int              Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 250)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration     Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --ipam string                             Backend to use for IPAM (default "hostscope-legacy")
      --k8s-api-server string                   Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                    Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                  Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration          Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string              Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --k8s-namespace string                    Name of the Kubernetes namespace in which Cilium Operator is deployed in
      --kvstore string                          Key-value store type
      --kvstore-opt map                         Key-value store options (default map[])
      --limit-ipam-api-burst int                Upper burst limit when accessing external APIs (default 4)
      --limit-ipam-api-qps float                Queries per second limit when accessing external IPAM APIs (default 20)
      --log-driver strings                      Logging endpoints to use for example syslog
      --log-opt map                             Log driver options for cilium-operator (default map[])
      --nodes-gc-interval duration              GC interval for nodes store in the kvstore (default 2m0s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string          Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-prometheus-serve-addr string   Address to serve Prometheus metrics (default ":6942")
      --parallel-alloc-workers int              Maximum number of parallel IPAM workers (default 50)
      --subnet-ids-filter strings               Subnets IDs (separated by commas)
      --subnet-tags-filter stringToString       Subnets tags in the form of k1=v1,k2=v2 (multiple k/v pairs can also be passed by repeating the CLI flag (default [])
      --synchronize-k8s-nodes                   Synchronize Kubernetes nodes to kvstore and perform CNP GC (default true)
      --synchronize-k8s-services                Synchronize Kubernetes services to kvstore (default true)
      --unmanaged-pod-watcher-interval int      Interval to check for unmanaged kube-dns pods (0 to disable) (default 15)
      --update-ec2-apdater-limit-via-api        Use the EC2 API to update the instance type to adapter limits
      --version                                 Print version information
```

Commit message:

Azure: add support for user assigned identities
This commit adds support for user assigned identities. The operator has
2 modes of getting credentials for the Azure API:
- getting them from a file by using `NewAuthorizerFromFile`
- getting them from the environment by using
`NewAuthorizerFromEnvironment`

The 1st method searches for client credentials and then falls back to
client certificates specified in the file.

The 2nd method searches for client credentials, client certificates,
username and passwd and in the end reaches out to the MSI (managed service
identity) for credentaials. The current code in the Azure SDK when it
reaches out to the MSI endpoint asks for credentials via the system
assigned identity which a user might not enable.

With this addition a user can assign multiple identities to an Azure VM
where the cilium-operator is running and specify which of those should
be used in order to get the correct API credentials.

Signed-off-by: Vlad Ungureanu <vladu@palantir.com>

Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator.md, after:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator

Run cilium-operator

### Synopsis

Run cilium-operator

```
cilium-operator [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --aws-instance-limit-mapping map          Add or overwrite mappings of AWS instance limit in the form of {"AWS instance type": "Maximum Network Interfaces","IPv4 Addresses per Interface","IPv6 Addresses per Interface"}. cli example: --aws-instance-limit-mapping=a1.medium=2,4,4 --aws-instance-limit-mapping=a2.somecustomflavor=4,5,6 configmap example: {"a1.medium": "2,4,4", "a2.somecustomflavor": "4,5,6"} (default map[])
      --aws-release-excess-ips                  Enable releasing excess free IP addresses from AWS ENI.
      --azure-cloud-name string                 Name of the Azure cloud being used (default "AzurePublicCloud")
      --azure-resource-group string             Resource group to use for Azure IPAM
      --azure-subscription-id string            Subscription ID to access Azure API
      --cilium-endpoint-gc-interval duration    GC interval for cilium endpoints (default 5m0s)
      --cluster-id int                          Unique identifier of the cluster
      --cluster-name string                     Name of the cluster (default "default")
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-cidr string           IPv4 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-mask-size int         Mask size for each IPv4 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true' (default 24)
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-cidr string           IPv6 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-mask-size int         Mask size for each IPv6 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true' (default 112)
      --cnp-node-status-gc-interval duration    GC interval for nodes which have been removed from the cluster in CiliumNetworkPolicy Status (default 2m0s)
      --cnp-status-update-interval duration     Interval between CNP status updates sent to the k8s-apiserver per-CNP (default 1s)
      --config string                           Configuration file (default "$HOME/ciliumd.yaml")
      --config-dir string                       Configuration directory that contains a file for each option
      --crd-wait-timeout duration               Operator will exit if CRDs are not available within this duration upon startup (default 5m0s)
  -D, --debug                                   Enable debugging mode
      --enable-ipv4                             Enable IPv4 support (default true)
      --enable-ipv6                             Enable IPv6 support (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --enable-k8s-endpoint-slice               Enables k8s EndpointSlice feature into Cilium-Operator if the k8s cluster supports it (default true)
      --enable-metrics                          Enable Prometheus metrics
      --eni-tags map                            ENI tags in the form of k1=v1 (multiple k/v pairs can be passed by repeating the CLI flag) (default map[])
  -h, --help                                    help for cilium-operator
      --identity-allocation-mode string         Method to use for identity allocation (default "kvstore")
      --identity-gc-interval duration           GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration      Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int              Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 250)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration     Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --ipam string                             Backend to use for IPAM (default "hostscope-legacy")
      --k8s-api-server string                   Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                    Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                  Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration          Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string              Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --k8s-namespace string                    Name of the Kubernetes namespace in which Cilium Operator is deployed in
      --kvstore string                          Key-value store type
      --kvstore-opt map                         Key-value store options (default map[])
      --limit-ipam-api-burst int                Upper burst limit when accessing external APIs (default 4)
      --limit-ipam-api-qps float                Queries per second limit when accessing external IPAM APIs (default 20)
      --log-driver strings                      Logging endpoints to use for example syslog
      --log-opt map                             Log driver options for cilium-operator (default map[])
      --nodes-gc-interval duration              GC interval for nodes store in the kvstore (default 2m0s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string          Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-prometheus-serve-addr string   Address to serve Prometheus metrics (default ":6942")
      --parallel-alloc-workers int              Maximum number of parallel IPAM workers (default 50)
      --subnet-ids-filter strings               Subnets IDs (separated by commas)
      --subnet-tags-filter stringToString       Subnets tags in the form of k1=v1,k2=v2 (multiple k/v pairs can also be passed by repeating the CLI flag (default [])
      --synchronize-k8s-nodes                   Synchronize Kubernetes nodes to kvstore and perform CNP GC (default true)
      --synchronize-k8s-services                Synchronize Kubernetes services to kvstore (default true)
      --unmanaged-pod-watcher-interval int      Interval to check for unmanaged kube-dns pods (0 to disable) (default 15)
      --update-ec2-apdater-limit-via-api        Use the EC2 API to update the instance type to adapter limits
      --user-assigned-identity-name string      Name of the user assigned identity used to auth with the Azure API
      --version                                 Print version information
```
